docs: ui capabilities file upload PTL-1570 (#1887)
genesiscommunitysuccess/docs: docs/001_develop/03_client-capabilities/008_interaction/file-upload.mdx

---
title: 'File Upload'
sidebar_label: 'File Upload'
id: client-interaction-file-upload
keywords: [interaction, interactive, upload, file, data]
tags:
- interaction
- interactive
- upload
- file
- data
sidebar_position: 8
---
import FileUploadDemo from '../../../../examples/ui/client-capabilities/interaction/fileupload.js';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# File Upload

Use cases:
* Uploading files to the server

The file-upload component can be used to select single or multiple files from the local file system. Selected files can be uploaded to a server using the **Upload** button.

## Example
<FileUploadDemo />

<Tabs defaultValue="genesis" values={[{ label: 'Genesis', value: 'genesis', }, { label: 'React', value: 'react', }, { label: 'Angular', value: 'angular', }]}>

<TabItem value="genesis">

Declaration
```html

>   <rapid-file-upload
>     label="File Upload (JSON files only)"
>     accept="application/json"
>     file-size-limit-bytes="104857600"
>     uploaded-files-resource-name="ALL_FILE_ATTACHMENTS"
>     entity-id="Demo"
>     field-name="ENTITY_ID"
>     upload-key="series"
>   >
>   </rapid-file-upload>

Reviewer: Nitpick, but the declerations in the other places have just had the tag with no attributes or properties set. Same for react and angular
```suggestion
<rapid-file-upload></rapid-file-upload>
```

<td>

```typescript
<rapid-file-upload grid-fields="FILE_NAME DOWNLOAD LAST_UPDATED_BY">
```

</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>downloadEventName</td>
      <td><code>string</code></td>
      <td>This attribute is an `observable` of type `function`. When you click the `download` button from a row in `data-grid`, it sends the `rowData` object as a parameter to the **downloadEventName** function. It should return the name of the endpoint that will be used to download the file. This is required in order to enable the download functionality.</td>
<td>

```typescript
<rapid-file-upload downloadEventName="DOWNLOAD_EVENT">
```

> 

Reviewer: This isn't an attribute and therefore needs to be moved into the properties table. This is something I will cover in the meeting tomorrow. 

Also the type should be something like
```
<td><code>(rowData: any) =&gt; string</code></td>
```
we've been told to reduce usage of `any` but fixing that is out of scope here

</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Properties

<table>
  <thead><tr><th>Name</th><th>Type</th><th>Description</th><th>Example</th></tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>filesGridColumnDefinitions</td>

>   <td><code>string</code></td>
>   <td>This property is used to override the colum definitions used in the attached grid</td>
> <td>
> 
> ```typescript
> <rapid-file-upload label="Upload file">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <td><code>Array&lt;ColumnDefinition&gt;</code></td>
  <td>This property is used to override the colum definitions used in the attached grid</td>
<td>

```typescript
<rapid-file-upload :filesGridColumnDefinitions=${() => definitions}>
```

```

</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Slots
| Slot | Use |
|---|---|
| end | slot for clear icon |

### Parts
| Part | Use |
|---|---|
| file-name-input | The text field showing the selected file. |
| select-file-button | The select file button. |
| upload-file-button | The file upload button. |
| uploaded-files-grid | The uploaded files grid. |

### Events fired
This component doesnt fire any events.

### Events listened to
| Event | Use |
|---|---|

> | errorOut | Emits when there is an error in the file upload. |

Reviewer: It's emitting this event, so it goes in the fired section. Also write out the full table using the example like 
```
<rapid-file-upload @errorOut=${(x, ctx) => x.handleError(ctx.event)}
```
